\input texinfo-zh
@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename eclip.info
@settitle Eclip a lightweight config for GNU Emacs
@c %**end of header
@copying
This configuration focuses on Emacs built-in features to ensure consistent key bindings in polyglot development..

Copyright @copyright{} 2026  Stalk Evolto

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.

A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
Foundation Web site at @url{https://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.

@end quotation

The document was typeset with
@uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/, GNU Texinfo}.

@end copying

@titlepage
@title Eclip a lightweight config for GNU Emacs
@subtitle This configuration focuses on Emacs built-in features to ensure consistent key bindings in polyglot development.
@author Stalk Evolto @email{stalk-evolto@@outlook.com}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, 简介, (dir), (dir)
@top Eclip a lightweight config for GNU Emacs

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* 简介::
* 安装::
* 编写之禅::
* 按键设计::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
* Index::
@end menu

@node 简介, 安装, Top, Top
@chapter Emacs Configurations

这篇文档是 GNU Emacs 的配置文件 Eclip 的文档。

@node 安装, 编写之禅, 简介, Top
@chapter 安装 Eclip

安装 Eclip 只需要使用 @uref{https://git-scm.com, Git} 将整个仓库 @code{clone} 到本地，将其替换 Emacs 的 user-emacs-directory。

@example
git clone
mv eclip ~/.emacs.d
@end example

@node 编写之禅, 按键设计, 安装, Top
@chapter 编写之禅

Eclip 的编写理念:

@itemize @bullet{}
@item
尽量使用 Emacs master 分支里的组件，更轻量。
@item
文件结构分明，易于配置与修改。
@item
不偏离 Emacs manual 中的按键绑定，配置出错也能快速适应 @code{Emacs -Q} 启动修复。
@end itemize

@node 按键设计, GNU Free Documentation License, 编写之禅, Top
@chapter 按键设计

我对 Emacs 按键设计的个人理解。

@menu
* 常用行动::
* 作大修改::
* 寻求帮助::
@end menu

@node 常用行动, 作大修改, 按键设计, 按键设计
@section 常用行动

常用行动绑定便于一次按出的组合建，使用 C- 的按键为基础操作， M- 的按键为补充， 仍需补充则使用 C-u 作为前缀。
@table @code
@item C-f
forward-char 向前移动一个字符
@item M-f
forward-word 向前移动一个单词像是
@item C-u 2 C-f
向前移动两个字符
@end table

@node 作大修改, 寻求帮助, 常用行动, 按键设计
@section 作大修改

做大修改通常使用 C-x 前缀按键。
@table @code
@item C-x C-f
@code{find-file} 查找并打开文件
@item C-x 2
垂直打开一个 window
@item C-x v =
版本控制 diff
@end table

@node 寻求帮助,  , 作大修改, 按键设计
@section 寻求帮助

帮助通常使用 C-h 作为前缀按键。
@table @code
@item C-h k @{key-bindings@}
@code{describe-key} 查找一个绑定按键的帮助
@item C-h w @{command@}
@code{where-is} 查找一个命令的按键绑定
@item C-h i
@code{info} 打开 info
@item C-h b
@code{discribe-bindings} 打开按键绑定列表
@item C-h m
@code{discribe-mode} 打开当前 buffer 启用的 mode 列表
@item C-h v
@code{discribe-variable} 显示 Emacs 变量信息
@item C-h f
@code{discrube-function} 显示函数信息
@end table

@node Eclip 编写与拓展
@chapter Eclip 编写与拓展

Eclip 目录结构

@example
@end example

@table

@node GNU Free Documentation License, Index, 按键设计, Top
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@cindex license, GNU Free Documentation License
@c Get fdl.texi from https://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html
@include fdl.texi

@node Index,  , GNU Free Documentation License, Top
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
